**Bacon** is a type of salt-cured pork[1] made from various cuts, typically the belly or less fatty parts of the back. It is eaten as a side dish (particularly in breakfasts), used as a central ingredient (e.g., the BLT sandwich), or as a flavouring or accent. Regular bacon consumption is associated with increased mortality and other health concerns.[2]
 
**Download Zip ✔ [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SS2](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SS2)**


 
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, including venison and pheasant, and may also be used to insulate or flavour roast joints by being layered onto the meat. The word is derived from the Proto-Germanic *\*bakkon*, meaning "back meat".[3]
 
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as, for example, "turkey bacon".[4] Such use is common in areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations as both religions prohibit the consumption of pork.[5] Vegetarian bacons such as "soy bacon" also exist.
 
Before the advent of cheap and widespread artificial refrigeration in the modern era, the curing of meat was necessary for its safe long-term preservation. However, both the flavour imparted to the meat in doing so and the extended shelf life it offered had become much prized, and although curing is in general no longer necessary in the developed world, it continues in wide use.
 
Bacon is cured through either a process of injecting it with or soaking it in brine, known as wet curing, or rubbed with salt, known as dry curing.[1][6] Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably nitrites or nitrates, which speed the curing and stabilise colour. Cured bacon may then be dried for weeks or months in cold air, or it may be smoked or boiled.[1] Fresh and dried bacon are typically cooked before eating, often by pan frying. Boiled bacon is ready to eat, as is some smoked bacon, but they may be cooked further before eating. Differing flavours can be achieved by using various types of wood, or less common fuels such as corn cobs or peat. This process can take up to eighteen hours, depending on the intensity of the flavour desired. *The Virginia Housewife* (1824), thought to be one of the earliest American cookbooks, gives no indication that bacon is ever *not* smoked, though it gives no advice on flavouring, noting only that care should be taken lest the fire get too hot.[7]
 
Bacon is distinguished from other salt-cured pork by differences in the cuts of meat used and in the brine or dry packing. Historically, the terms "ham" and "bacon" referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel. Today, ham is defined as coming from the hind portion of the pig and brine specifically for curing ham includes a greater amount of sugar, while bacon is less sweet, though ingredients such as brown sugar or maple syrup are used for flavour. Bacon is similar to salt pork, which in modern times is often prepared from similar cuts, but salt pork is never smoked, and has a much higher salt content.[8]

For safety, bacon may be treated to prevent trichinosis,[9] caused by *Trichinella*, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, freezing, drying, or smoking.[10] Sodium polyphosphates, such as sodium triphosphate, may also be added to make the product easier to slice and to reduce spattering when the bacon is pan-fried.
 
The most common form sold is *middle bacon*, which includes some of the streaky, fatty section of side bacon along with a portion of the loin of back bacon. In response to increasing consumer diet-consciousness, some supermarkets also offer the loin section only. This is sold as *short cut bacon* and is usually priced slightly higher than middle bacon. Both varieties are usually available with the rind removed.[17]
 
In Canada, the term *bacon* on its own typically refers to side bacon.[18] Canadian-style back bacon is a lean cut from the eye of the pork loin with little surrounding fat.[18] Peameal bacon is an unsmoked back bacon, wet-cured and coated in fine-ground cornmeal (historically, it was rolled in ground, dried peas);[18] it is popular in southern Ontario. Bacon is often eaten in breakfasts, such as with cooked eggs or pancakes. Maple syrup is often used as a flavouring while curing bacon in Canada.
 
Small bacon cubes (called *Grieben* or *Grammerln* in Austria and southern Germany) have been a rather important ingredient of various southern German dishes. They are used for adding flavour to soups and salads and for Speck dumplings and various noodle and potato dishes. Instead of preparing them at home from larger slices, they have been sold ready made as convenience foods recently as *Baconwrfel* ("bacon cubes") in German retail stores.
 
In Japan, bacon (ベーコン)[19] is pronounced "bēkon". It is cured and smoked belly meat as in the US, and is sold in either regular or half-length sizes. Bacon in Japan is different from that in the US in that the meat is not sold raw, but is processed, precooked and has a ham-like consistency when cooked.[20] Uncured, sliced pork belly, known as bara (バラ), is very popular in Japan and is used in a variety of dishes (e.g. yakitori and yakiniku).
 
Back bacon is the most common form in Great Britain and Ireland, and is the usual meaning of the plain term "bacon". A thin slice of bacon is known as a *rasher*; about 70% of bacon is sold as rashers.[21] Heavily trimmed back cuts which consist of just the eye of meat, known as a *medallion*, are also available. All types may be unsmoked or smoked. The side cut normal in America is known as "streaky bacon",[22] and there is also a long cut, curving round on itself, known as "middle bacon", which is back bacon at one end, and streaky at the other, as well as less common cuts.[23] Bacon is also sold and served as joints, usually boiled, broiled or roast,[24] or in thicker slices called chops or steaks. These are usually eaten as part of other meals.[6]
 
Bacon may be cured in several ways, and may be smoked or unsmoked; unsmoked bacon is known as "green bacon".[6] Fried or grilled bacon rashers are included in the "traditional" full breakfast. Hot bacon sandwiches are a popular cafe dish throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland,[25] and are anecdotally recommended as a hangover cure.[26]
 
The term *bacon* on its own generally refers to side bacon, which is the most popular type of bacon sold in the US. Back bacon is known as "Canadian bacon" or "Canadian-style bacon", and is usually sold pre-cooked and thick-sliced.[28][29] American bacons include varieties smoked with hickory, mesquite or applewood and flavourings such as maple, brown sugar, honey, or molasses.[30] A side of unsliced bacon is known as "slab bacon".[31]
 
USDA regulations only recognise bacon as "cured" if it has been treated with synthetic nitrites or nitrates (e.g. sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate). This means that bacon cured with nitrites derived from celery or beets (which has the same chemical outcome) must be labelled "uncured" and include a notice such as "no nitrates or nitrites added except for that naturally occurring in celery". There is also bacon for sale uncured with any nitrites from any sources.[32]
 
Salted pork belly first appeared in China. In Middle English the term bacon or bacoun referred to all pork in general.[33] Before the Industrial Revolution, bacon was generally produced on local farms and in domestic kitchens. The world's first commercial bacon processing plant was opened in Wiltshire in the 1770s by John Harris.[34]
 
The United States and Canada have seen an increase in the popularity of bacon and bacon-related recipes, dubbed "bacon mania". The sale of bacon in the US has increased significantly since 2011. Sales climbed 9.5% in 2013, making it an all-time high of nearly $4 billion in US. In a survey conducted by Smithfield, 65% of Americans would support bacon as their "national food".[35] Dishes such as bacon explosion, chicken fried bacon, and chocolate-covered bacon have been popularised over the Internet,[36] as has the use of candied bacon. Recipes spread quickly through both countries' national media, culinary blogs, and YouTube.[37][38] Celebrity chef Bobby Flay has endorsed a "Bacon of the Month" club online, in print,[39] and on national television.[40] *Everything Tastes Better with Bacon*, a 2002 book by Sara Perry, is a cookbook in which all dishes contain bacon.[41]
 
Commentators explain this surging interest in bacon by reference to what they deem American cultural characteristics. Sarah Hepola, in a 2008 article in *Salon.com*, suggests a number of reasons, one of them being that eating bacon in the modern, health-conscious world is an act of rebellion: "Loving bacon is like shoving a middle finger in the face of all that is healthy and holy while an unfiltered cigarette smoulders between your lips."[42] She also suggests bacon is sexy (with a reference to Sarah Katherine Lewis' book *Sex and Bacon*), kitsch, and funny. Hepola concludes by saying that "Bacon is American".
 
Bacon dishes include bacon and eggs, bacon, lettuce, and tomato (BLT) sandwiches, Cobb salad, and various bacon-wrapped foods, such as scallops, shrimp,[45][46][47] and asparagus. Recently invented bacon dishes include chicken fried bacon, chocolate covered bacon, bacon jerky, bacon ice cream and the bacon explosion. Tatws Pum Munud is a traditional Welsh stew, made with sliced potatoes, vegetables and smoked bacon. Bacon jam and bacon marmalade are also commercially available.
 
Streaky bacon is more commonly used as a topping in the US on such items as pizza, salads, sandwiches, hamburgers, baked potatoes, hot dogs, and soups. In the US, sliced smoked back bacon is used less frequently than the streaky