
 
The **Toyota Land Cruiser** (Japanese: トヨタ・ランドクルーザー, Hepburn: Toyota Rando-Kurūzā) (also sometimes spelled as **LandCruiser**)[1] is a series of four-wheel drive vehicles produced by the Japanese automobile manufacturer Toyota. It is Toyota's longest running series of models.[2] As of 2019[update], the sales of the Land Cruiser totalled more than 10 million units worldwide.[3]
 
Since 1990, the smaller variation of the Land Cruiser has been marketed as the Land Cruiser Prado. Described as a 'light-duty' version of the Land Cruiser by Toyota, it features a different design compared to the full-size model and, up until 2023, it remains the only comfort-oriented Land Cruiser available with a short-wheelbase 3-door version.
 
**Download ✏ [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SRZ](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SRZ)**


 
As of 2023, the full-size Land Cruiser was available in many markets. Exceptions include the United States (since 2021),[10] Canada (since 1996),[11] Malaysia (which receives the Lexus LX instead), Hong Kong, Macau, South Korea, Brazil, and most of Europe. In Europe, the only countries where the full-size Land Cruiser is officially sold are the Gibraltar, Moldova, New Caledonia,[12] Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine. The Land Cruiser is hugely popular in the Middle East, Russia, and Australia, and also in Africa where it is used by farmers, the construction industry, non-governmental and humanitarian organizations, the United Nations, national armies (often the pickup version), and irregular armed groups who turn them into "technicals" by mounting machine guns in the rear. In August 2019, cumulative global sales of the Land Cruiser family surpassed 10 million units.[13]
 
The prototype **Model AK** led to the Yon-Shiki Kogata Kamotsu-Sha (四式小型 貨物 車 *type 4 compact cargo-truck*).[14] The half-ton truck featured an upright front grille, flat front wheel arches that angled down and back (like the later FJ40), headlights mounted above the wheel arches on either side of the radiator, and a folding windshield.
 
Production **AK10** vehicles were powered by the 2,259 cc (2.3 L), 4-cylinder Type C engine from the Toyota Model AE sedan coupled to a three-speed manual transmission and a two-speed transfer gearbox. Unlike the U.S. Jeep, the AK10 had limited use and photographs of it in the battlefield are rare.
 
The postwar Toyota "Jeep" BJ is completely different from the AK10 and inherits no mechanical parts from it. However, a lot of lessons learned while developing the AK10 were applied when developing the BJ.[15]
 
Toyota divided the Land Cruiser family into three series.[16] The most basic version is the 'heavy-duty' series, which prioritizes functionality, durability and off-road capabilities over comfort or technology. It is also characterised by flatter steel body panels and a near vertical greenhouse. Models considered as 'heavy-duty' by Toyota are the BJ, FJ, 20, 40 and 70 series.[17]

Since the 70 series, the 'light-duty' series has been offered. Primarily tuned for the European market, it was intended to be a more comfortable version of the 'heavy-duty' series by adopting coil spring suspension, while being smaller and more affordable than the 'station wagon' series. Since 1990, the 'light-duty' series gained an additional moniker for some markets, Prado, coinciding with the release of the 90 series Land Cruiser that was designed to be more comfort oriented. 'Light-duty' models included the 70 wagon, 90, 120, 150 and 250 series.[16]
 
Availability of these series varies by market. Until 2021, the U.S. and Canada received the 'station wagon' model, but switched to the smaller 'light-duty' model with the release of the 250 series in 2023.[19] Most of Europe received the 'light-duty' model, while only several European countries also received the 'station wagon' model.[20]
 
For the first two years, manufacture was exclusively to order and in small volumes.[23] In 1953, however, regular production of the "Toyota Jeep BJ" began at the Toyota Honsya Plant (rolling chassis assembly). The body assembly and painting was done at Arakawa Bankin Kogyo KK, later known as ARACO (now an affiliate of Toyota Auto Body Company).[22] The "Toyota Jeep BJ" Series was introduced in the following variants:
 
The 70 series is also still being marketed in the Middle East as a 2-door and 4-door version as an SUV, and a 2-door and 4-door version as a pickup, and it is very popular there along with the regular Land Cruiser.
 
The Land Cruiser 55 was produced from 1967 to 1980. Toyota refers to the FJ55G and FJ55V as the first "real" station wagon in the Land Cruiser series, thus marking the beginning of the station wagon body style. It was the first Land Cruiser to have fully enclosed box frame members. Of all the Land Cruiser wagons sold in the U.S., including the FJ45, it is the only one to not have hatch and tailgate in the rear, but rather a tailgate only with an electrically operated window that can be retracted into the tailgate.[39]
 
The Land Cruiser 60 series was produced from 1980 through 1990, for most markets but the Cumana Plant in Venezuela continued production until 1992 for their local market. It is a front engine, four-door wagon which can seat five to eight[41][42][43] people. The 60 series was available in the following exterior colours: Alpine White, Brown, Desert Beige, Freeborn Red, Royal Blue; and in the following metallic exterior colours: Charcoal Gray, Cognac, Gray-Blue, Rootbeer, Sky Blue, Stardust Silver.
 
The Land Cruiser 80 series was unveiled in October 1989 at the Tokyo Motor Show and launched in early 1990. It had swing-out back doors, which were replaced by a tailgate and hatch in 1994. The Land Cruiser was nicknamed the Burbuja (Bubble) in Colombia and Venezuela due to its roundness. The J80 was initially offered in two versions in these countries: the fully loaded VX and an entry-level model that included a vinyl interior with optional air conditioning. In 1996, the entry model was upgraded to a medium-equipped model named Autana, including cloth upholstery, standard air conditioning and power driver seat. The name is a reference to the Tepui mesa Autana, a spectacular plateau and cave system along the Guiana Shield craton. Land Cruiser sales reached 2 million vehicles.
 
In January 1998, the 100 series Land Cruiser was introduced to replace the eight-year-old 80 series. The 100 series was previewed in October 1997 as the "Grand Cruiser" at the 32nd Tokyo Motor Show. Development began in 1991 under code name 404T, with the final design being frozen in mid-1994.[53][54]
 
The *105* carried over the majority of its chassis and power train from the 80-series with coil suspended solid axles front and rear, and straight-6 petrol and diesel engines. These models were only sold in African, Australian, Russian, and South American markets.
 
In 2002, Toyota introduced Night View, the first worldwide series-production active automotive night vision system, on the Toyota Land Cruiser Cygnus and Lexus LX470. This system uses the headlight projectors emitting near infrared light aimed like the car's high-beam headlights and a CCD camera then captures that reflected radiation, this signal is then processed by a computer which produces a black-and-white image which is projected on the lower section of the windshield.[56] It was also the first Toyota vehicle with roll-over sensor and control logic.[57]
 
The *100* models were fitted with a slightly wider chassis,[58] independent front suspension (IFS) and two new engines. The change to IFS was a first for a Land Cruiser, and was made (in combination with rack-and-pinion steering) to improve on-road handling. However, it also limited the vehicle's off-road capability and durability; hence, the decision to offer the solid-axle 105 models alongside the IFS 100 models in some markets was made. The table below identifies the range of 100 and 105 models and their worldwide availability.
 
Despite the 100 and 105 bodies being very similar, there are some exterior visual indications between both models. The most obvious is the front end of the vehicle often appearing lower than the rear on the 100 models, due to the IFS. The other indicator is the design of the wheels: the 100 models have almost flat wheel designs, while the 105 models have dished wheels. This difference allows both versions to retain similar wheel tracks, despite the 100 having a relatively wider axle track to allow for the IFS system.
 
The introduction of a V8 engine was also a first for a Land Cruiser, and was specifically intended to improve sales in the North-American market, where it was the only engine available. In Australia, the 100 V8 was initially only available in the range-topping GXV model, while entry and mid-range models were the 105 powered by the 1FZ-FE I6 petrol, or 1HZ diesel engines. The new 1HD-FTE turbo-diesel 100 was added to the Australian range in October 2000 after being available in Europe and the UK since the vehicle's launch in 1998. The automotive press in Australia were critical of Toyota's decision to offer the acclaimed 1HD-FTE engine only in combination with IFS. Australian 4WD Monthly magazine stated "We will never forgive Toyota for going independent at the front with the mighty 4.2 turbo-diesel".
 
In 2002, a five-year development plan on a successor to the 100-series platform commenced under Sadayoshi Koyari and Tetsuya Tada. By 2004, ten years after the design selection of its predecessor in 1994, a final production design was settled on for the 2008 J200. Prototype related tests were conducted for over two years between 2004 and early 2007. The redesigned Toyota Land Cruiser was introduced in late 2007. Known as the 200 Series, it shares the Lexus LX 570's platform and overall design. The frame was new, derived from the second-generation Tundra[*citation needed*] but shortened and strengthen