
 
Black Blocks, White Squares presents fifty-one themed crossword puzzles featuring radical ideas, history, and movements. Ranging from slightly to substantially challenging, they are built around noteworthy quotations, invoke notable thinkers and books, or allude to key words and concepts. Some of the puzzles use wordplay or grid art to illustrate important ideas or events, exploring a range of orientations and activities in contemporary political activism.
 
**DOWNLOAD ✶ [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSr](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSr)**


 
**Leonard Williams** is professor emeritus of political science at Manchester University, Indiana. His crosswords have appeared in such venues as the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, Andrews McMeel Universal, Fireball Crosswords, and GAMES Magazine.
 
A **crossword** (or **crossword puzzle**) is a word game consisting of a grid of black and white squares, into which solvers enter words or phrases ("entries") crossing each other horizontally ("across") and vertically ("down") according to a set of clues. Each white square is typically filled with one letter, while the black squares are used to separate entries. The first white square in each entry is typically numbered to correspond to its clue.
 
Crosswords commonly appear in newspapers and magazines. The earliest crosswords that resemble their modern form were popularized by the *New York World* in the 1910s. Many variants of crosswords are popular around the world, including cryptic crosswords and many language-specific variants.
 
Crossword construction in modern times usually involves the use of software. Constructors choose a theme (except for themeless puzzles), place the theme answers in a grid which is usually symmetric, fill in the rest of the grid, and then write clues.
 
Crossword grids such as those appearing in most North American newspapers and magazines consist mainly of solid regions of uninterrupted white squares, separated more sparsely by shaded squares. Every letter is "checked" (i.e. is part of both an "across" word and a "down" word) and usually each answer must contain at least three letters. In such puzzles shaded squares are typically limited to about one-sixth of the total. Crossword grids elsewhere, such as in Britain, South Africa, India and Australia, have a lattice-like structure, with a higher percentage of shaded squares (around 25%), leaving about half the letters in an answer unchecked. For example, if the top row has an answer running all the way across, there will often be no across answers in the second row.

Another tradition in puzzle design (in North America, India, and Britain particularly) is that the grid should have 180-degree rotational symmetry, so that its pattern appears the same if the paper is turned upside down. Most puzzle designs also require that all white cells be orthogonally contiguous (that is, connected in one mass through shared sides, to form a single polyomino).
 
Substantial variants from the usual forms exist. Two of the common ones are barred crosswords, which use bold lines between squares (instead of shaded squares) to separate answers, and circular designs, with answers entered either radially or in concentric circles. "Free form" crosswords ("criss-cross" puzzles), which have simple, asymmetric designs, are often seen on school worksheets, children's menus, and other entertainment for children. Grids forming shapes other than squares are also occasionally used.
 
Puzzles are often one of several standard sizes. For example, many weekday newspaper puzzles (such as the American *New York Times* crossword puzzle) are 1515 squares, while weekend puzzles may be 2121, 2323, or 2525. The *New York Times* puzzles also set a common pattern for American crosswords by increasing in difficulty throughout the week: their Monday puzzles are the easiest and the puzzles get harder each day until Saturday. Their larger Sunday puzzle is about the same level of difficulty as a weekday-size Thursday puzzle.[1] This has led U.S. solvers to use the day of the week as a shorthand when describing how hard a puzzle is: e.g. an easy puzzle may be referred to as a "Monday" or a "Tuesday", a medium-difficulty puzzle as a "Wednesday", and a truly difficult puzzle as a "Saturday".
 
Typically clues appear outside the grid, divided into an across list and a down list; the first cell of each entry contains a number referenced by the clue lists. For example, the answer to a clue labeled "17 Down" is entered with the first letter in the cell numbered "17", proceeding down from there. Numbers are almost never repeated; numbered cells are numbered consecutively, usually from left to right across each row, starting with the top row and proceeding downward. Some Japanese crosswords are numbered from top to bottom down each column, starting with the leftmost column and proceeding right.
 
Crossword clues are generally consistent with the solutions. For instance, clues and their solutions should always agree in tense, number, and degree.[4] If a clue is in the past tense, so is the answer: thus "Traveled on horseback" would be a valid clue for the solution *RODE*, but not for *RIDE*. Similarly, "Family members" would be a valid clue for *AUNTS* but not *UNCLE*, while "More joyful" could clue *HAPPIER* but not *HAPPIEST*.
 
Capitalization of answer letters is conventionally ignored; crossword puzzles are typically filled in, and their answer sheets published, in all caps. This ensures a proper name can have its initial capital letter checked with a non-capitalizable letter in the intersecting clue.
 
The constraints of the American-style grid (in which every letter is checked) often require a fair number of answers not to be dictionary words. As a result, the following ways to clue abbreviations and other non-words, although they can be found in "straight" British crosswords, are much more common in American ones:
 
The Simon & Schuster Crossword Puzzle Series has published many unusual themed crosswords. "Rosetta Stone", by Sam Bellotto Jr., incorporates a Caesar cipher cryptogram as the theme; the key to breaking the cipher is the answer to 1 across. Another unusual theme requires the solver to use the answer to a clue as another clue. The answer to *that* clue is the real solution.
 
Many puzzles feature clues involving wordplay which are to be taken metaphorically or in some sense other than their literal meaning, requiring some form of lateral thinking. Depending on the puzzle creator or the editor, this might be represented either with a question mark at the end of the clue or with a modifier such as "maybe" or "perhaps". In more difficult puzzles, the indicator may be omitted, increasing ambiguity between a literal meaning and a wordplay meaning. Examples:
 
When an answer is composed of multiple or hyphenated words, some crosswords (especially in Britain) indicate the structure of the answer. For example, "(3,5)" after a clue indicates that the answer is composed of a three-letter word followed by a five-letter word. Most American-style crosswords do not provide this information.
 
Some crossword designers have started including a metapuzzle, or "meta" for short, a second puzzle within the completed puzzle.[8] After the player has correctly solved the crossword puzzle in the usual fashion, the solution forms the basis of a second puzzle. The designer usually includes a hint to the metapuzzle. For instance, the puzzle *Eight Isn't Enough* by Matt Gaffney gives the clue "This week's contest answer is a three-word phrase whose second word is 'or'."[9] The crossword solution includes the entries "BROUGHT TO NAUGHT", "MIGHT MAKES RIGHT", "CAUGHT A STRAIGHT", and "HEIGHT AND WEIGHT", which are all three-word phrases with two words ending in -ght. The solution to the meta is a similar phrase in which the middle word is "or": "FIGHT OR FLIGHT".
 
Since September 2015, the Wall Street Journal Friday crossword has featured a crossword contest metapuzzle, with the prize of a WSJ mug going to a reader randomly chosen from among those submitting the correct answer.[10][11]
 
Some puzzle grids contain more than one correct answer for the same set of clues. These are called Schrdinger or quantum puzzles, alluding to the Schrdinger's Cat thought experiment in quantum physics.[12] Schrdinger puzzles have frequently been published in venues including *Fireball Crosswords* and *The American Values Club Crosswords*, and at least ten have appeared in *The New York Times* since the late 1980s.[13]
 
The daily *New York Times* puzzle for November 5, 1996, by Jeremiah Farrell, had a clue for 39 across that read "Lead story in tomorrow's newspaper, with 43 Across (!)."[14] The answer for 43 across was ELECTED; depending on the outcome of that day's Presidential Election, the answer for 39 across would have been correct with either CLINTON or BOBDOLE, as would each of the corresponding down answers.[15] On September 1, 2016, the daily *New York Times* puzzle by Ben Tausig had four squares which led to correct answers reading both across and down if solvers entered either "M" or "F".[16] The puzzle's theme, GENDERFLUID, was revealed at 37 across in the center of the puzzle: "Having a variable identity, as suggested by four squares in this puzzle."[17]
 
In cryptic crosswords, the clues are puzzles in themselves. A typical clue contains both a definition at the beginning or end of the clue and wordplay, which provides a way to manufacture the word indicated by the definition, and which may not parse logically. Cryptics usually give the length of their answers in parentheses after the clue, which is especially useful with multi-word answers. Certain signs indicate different forms of wordplay. Solving cryptics is harder to learn than standard crosswords, as learning to interpret the different types of cryptic clues ca