It was 1977 and Pakistan Television was recording an episode of the weekly show Farozan, hosted by Mehtab Channa (now Rashdi). The producer, Arfeen, introduced a lad in his early 20s to the show that brought fresh talent to the fore.
 
**Download ::: [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SOV](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SOV)**


 
For Umer Sharif, who passed away on October 2, spontaneity and ready wit were his best assets and he used them to change not only Urdu theatre and films, but also how comedy was consumed in the Subcontinent
 
In 1976, Umer wrote the stage show Bionic Servant, inspired by the famous TV series Six Million Dollar Man starring Lee Majors, and thus his lifetime association with the already established comedian Moin Akhtar, who also starred in it, began.
 
As a result, VHS and audio cassettes of Bollywood films rapidly captured the Pakistani market. Be it buses, private cars or inter-city coaches, Indian songs could be heard freely everywhere. Sharif capitalised on this distribution, first through audio cassettes of his monologues and, later, through video recordings of his stage dramas.
 
At a time when both PTV as well as Pakistani films were struggling for audiences after the influx of pirated Indian movies, Sharif acted as a saviour by drawing audience back to Pakistani content, with his hit plays available on rental VHS tapes. Umer Sharif made the decision of having his stage show Bakra Qiston Pe recorded in 1987. Bakra Qiston Pe not only saw multiple copies in video shops due to a surging demand in its rental but it became a huge hit in India as well, in much the same way Bollywood films were a craze in Pakistan.
 
He introduced juggat in Urdu theatre which, until then, was usually associated only with the culture of Punjab. Punjabi actors were famous for catcalling, yet there was no such concept among their Urdu-speaking counterparts. Umer never shied away from an opportunity to body shame his fellow actors, performers and even legends either, with Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and Adnan Sami Khan being his regular targets. As a master of cultural comedy, he divided Karachi into two parts: (Clifton) Pul ke uss paar and pul ke iss paar [One side of the bridge versus the other].

His first TV serial, Parda Na Uthao which he wrote and acted in as well, was produced by Rashid Khawaja in 2002. Exposing the lack of faith in the divine in our society, it featured an unusual painter: whichever person he painted died within hours and people flocked to him to seek revenge on their enemies. His TV shows Umer Sharif Hazir Ho, Umer Sharif vs Umer Sharif and The Sharif Show were hilarious as well as marvellous. In Umer Sharif vs Umer Sharif, he donned over 400 get-ups. The currently on-air Kapil Sharma Show bears a striking resemblance to The Sharif Show aired more than a decade ago.
 
A recipient of the Tamgha-i-Imtiaz, Umer Sharif remained active till 2019. The untimely death of his daughter Hira, in February 2020, left him utterly shattered. His health deteriorated and he became bedridden. By the time the Sindh Government intervened and Umer was flown out of Pakistan in an air ambulance on September 28 for treatment in the US, it was already too late for the ailing comedian. He died on October 2 in a hospital in Germany.
 
Like many of my Indo-Muslim peers in North India I first discovered Moin Akhtar in the late seventies, on the back of the cassette revolution. The late seventies and eighties was still a period when our relatives from Pakistan visited us frequently, and occasionally we visited them too. Family contacts were still maintained, Pakistan was a living entity in our lives. Moin Akhtar cassettes were part of the parcels that travelled to and fro the two countries which included tapes of Ghazal singers like Mehdi Hasan and Ghulam Ali and Qawwals like Sabri brothers, Raseeli Supari, the Pathan suit (which the muhajirs, following Zia, always referred to as the Awami suit) and the flat cloth for salwar kamiz. Pan Parag, copies of Shama, amavat made up the poorer counterparts from India. Pakistani relatives always seemed richer, their cities grander, their lifestyles more cosmopolitan and at least some of that had to do with the state of their television industry.
 
Moin Akhtar was a part of an entire phalanx of talent that made up the golden era of Pakistani television. Anwar Maqsood, Umar Sharif, Bushra Ansari, Rahat Kazmi, Qazi Wajid, there were a whole host of actors and performers who thrived on the basis of some really fine quality writing. To a certain extent this was a natural product of a stream of Urdu literature that could churn out middle-brow stuff with tremendous elan. The mid 20th century Urdu writers on both sides of the border, including Ismat, Jeelani Bano, Ashfaq Ahmed, Qudsia Bano, could produce realistic stories that were both emotionally moving and could have popular appeal. Beyond this lay the world of real popular literature, the world of Shama, Noor, Ibn-e-Safi, Wajida Tabassum and the still surviving Afsana Digest. A lot of that world of popular literature has disappeared from Hindustan, that is North India, from both Hindi and Urdu. However, it lives on in Pakistan where a fair number of literary writers have written for television but there is also a very wide range of original television writers and Hasina Moin is just one name that we are familiar with. Over the years they have produced outstanding dramas, entertainment shows and fine dialogues. It was no accident that Pakistan was the site of the appearance of the first drag host in sub-continental television. There is a history of lampooning the famous and the powerful with an impunity that is rare here in India and I found it both hilarious and impressive to see Akhtar take on the personas of Chaudhri Shujaat Husain, Pervez Musharraf and Imran Khan. He was an inspiring and inspired artist. Thank god we can still see him talk loose on YouTube.
 
You are absolutely right Yousuf, he defnitely, and perhaps consciously, spoke like a true blue Urduwala from UP, as did some others like Rahat Kazmi. However, he was popular all across Pakistan, I think and his programs were not produced only by Karachi TV.
 
I was initially reluctant to watch this video as I suspected there would be a tendency to extract laughs at the expence of the Bengladeshis. But I was pleasantly surprised. A Pakistani audience that is unlikely to otherwise get to know much about Bangladesh is informed by a self-assured and well informed Bangladeshi in very comprehensible Urdu, that Bangladesh is relatively peaceful, is making progress in health and education, and is able to cope with floods. The contrast with Pakistan is obvious. Something that many middle class Pakistanis who look down on Bangladeshis, really need to know.
 
Clearly Confused and Big Boss, you are right. The face has been blackened in order to other as well as ridicule Bangladeshis. There is no escaping that fact. The content however is a little more sophisticated, even as it defends Bangladesh, it tends to mock a fairly widely prevalent tendency of the non-west to glorify their achievments.
 
There were hundreds of other videos that I could have chosen which would have given no offense to any South Asian ethnicity, although God knows there are too many of them and too quick to take offense at the slightest.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
