
 
**FlyBase ID:**FBgn0265974**Genetic map position -** 2-**Classification -**acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity**Cellular location -**transmembrane in the ER and in the golgi 
 **NCBI links:** Entrez Gene ***ttv* orthologs:** Biolitmine**BIOLOGICAL OVERVIEW** Hedgehog (Hh) proteins act through both short-range and long-range signaling to pattern tissues during invertebrate andvertebrate development. The mechanisms allowing Hedgehog to diffuse over a long distance and to exert its long-range effectsare not understood. A new Drosophila gene, named *tout-velu*, meaning 'all hair,' has been identified: it is required for diffusion of Hedgehog. Ttv is involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) biosynthesis, suggesting that HSPGs control Hh distribution (The, 1999). *ttv* was identified in a screen for maternal-effect mutations associated with segment polarity. *ttv* clones prove to have a non-cell-autonomous effect. Hh signal is shown to be unable to reach wild-type cells located anterior to *ttv* mutant cells. It is proposed that *ttv* functions in the receiving cells for the movement of Hh from sending to receiving cells (Bellaiche, 1998). Subsequent studies have shown striking defects in both Dpp signalling and the range of extracellular Wg protein distribution in *ttv* and the mutant *sister of tout velu* (*sotv* or *Ext2*), a gene that encodes a co-polymerase that synthesizes HSPG glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. Therefore, the previous view that Ttv is involved only in Hh signalling should be revised (Han, 2004b).Characterization of *tout-velu* shows that it encodes an integral membrane protein that belongs to the *EXT* gene family.Members of this family are involved in the human multiple exostoses syndrome, which affects bone morphogenesis. Analysis of the Ttv sequence shows that there is a hydrophobic stretch at the amino terminus of the Ttv protein, indicating that Ttv might be a transmembrane protein. Ttv appears to be a type II integral protein, with the C-terminal region displayed extracellularly. These results, together with the previous characterization of the role of Indian Hedgehog in bone morphogenesis, have led to a proposal that the multiple exostoses syndrome is associated with abnormal diffusion of Hedgehog proteins. These results show theexistence of a new conserved mechanism required for diffusion of Hedgehog. The interaction of Hh with HSPGs might result in the endocytosis of Hh or, alternatively, it may facilitate the movement of Hh from one cell to the next by translocating Hh around the surface of the cell (Bellaiche, 1998). Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG) play important roles in signalling events controlled by secreted Wg, Hh and Dpp morphogens (Lander, 2000; Lin, 2000b; Nybakken, 2002; Perrimon, 2000). HSPGs consist of a protein core to which heparan sulfate (HS) glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains are attached (Bernfield, 1999; Esko, 2002; Perrimon and Bernfield, 2000). The biosynthesis of HS GAG chains is initiated by the formation of a GAG-protein linkage region consisting of a tetrasaccharide(-GlcA1-3Gal1-3Gal1-4Xyl-*O*-) attached to specific serine residues in a proteoglycan core protein (Bernfield, 1999; Esko, 2002).Following the transfer of alpha-GlcNAc as the first N-acetylhexosamine unitto this linkage region, heparin sulfate (HS) co-polymerases add alternating 1-4-linkedGlcA and alpha1-4-linked GlcNAc residues, generating HS GAG chains of 100 or more sugar units in length (Esko, 2002). Biochemical studies have demonstrated that boththe attachment of the first alpha-GlcNAc to the GAG-protein linkage region and the subsequent polymer formation are catalyzed by members of the hereditary multiple exostoses (EXT) gene family of tumor suppressors (Esko, 2002; Zak, 2002). In vertebrates, the EXT gene family consists of *EXT1, EXT2*, and three EXT-like genes designated *EXTL1, EXTL2* and *EXTL3* (Zak, 2002). Humanmutations in *EXT1* and *EXT2* are associated with hereditary multiple exostoses (HME), a benign bone tumor characterized by multiple cartilage-capped outgrowths of various bones.However, three EXT-like genes have not been demonstrated to be linked togenetic disorder(s). A number of biochemical studies have shown that EXT1 andEXT2 function as HS co-polymerases involved in HS polymerization. Recentbiochemical studies also demonstrate that both *EXTL2* and *EXTL3* proteins possess enzymatic activities that can transferalpha-GlcNAc to the GAG-protein linkage region and to intermediates of chainpolymerization, suggesting roles for these proteins in initiation andpolymerization reactions (Han, 2004b and references therein). Thus studies have shown that Tout-velu is required for Hh movement across receiving cells. However, the molecular mechanism of Ttv- mediated Hh movement is poorly defined. Dally and Dally-like (Dly), two Drosophila glypican members of the heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) family, are shown to be the substrates of Ttv and are essential for Hh movement. Embryos lacking *dly* activity exhibit defects in Hh distribution and its subsequent signalling. However, both Dally and Dly are involved and are functionally redundant in Hh movement during wing development. Hh movement in its receiving cells is regulated by a cell-to-cell mechanism that is independent of dynamin-mediated endocytosis. It is proposed that glypicans transfer Hh along the cell membrane to pattern a field of cells (Han, 2004a).To dissect the molecular mechanism(s) by which HSPG(s) regulates Hh signalling, attempts were made to identify specific proteoglycan(s) involved in Hh signalling during embryonic patterning. During embryogenesis, Hh and Wingless (Wg) are expressed in adjacent cells and are required for patterning of epidermis. In stage 10 embryos, Hh is expressed in two rows of cells in the posterior compartment of each parasegment, while Wg is expressed in one row of cells anterior to Hh expression cells. The expression of Hh is controlled by Engrailed (En) whose expression is maintained by Wg signalling through a paracrine regulatory loop. Hh signalling in turn is required for maintaining the expression of *wg* whose activity controls the production of the naked cuticles. Loss of either Hh or Wg signalling leads to a loss of naked cuticle, which is defined as segment polarity phenotype (Han, 2004a and references therein).Disruption of *dly* in embryos by RNA interference (RNAi) leads to a strong segment polarity defect, suggesting that Dly is likely to be involved in Hh and/or Wingless (Wg) signalling in embryonic epidermis. To explore the potential role of Dly in Hh signalling, a number of *dly* mutant alleles were isolated using EMS mutagenesis. *dlyA187* is a null allele and is used for further analyses. Animals zygotically mutant for *dly* appears to have normal cuticle patterning and survive until third instar larvae. However, homozygous mutant embryos derived from females lacking maternal *dly* activity (referred to as *dly* embryos hereafter) die with a strong segment-polarity phenotype resembling those of mutants of the segment polarity genes *hh* and *wg*. In *dly* embryos, both En expression and *wg* transcription fade by stage 10, suggesting further that *dly* is involved in the Hh and/or Wg pathways (Han, 2004a).To further determine whether Dly activity is required for Hh signalling in embryogenesis, Hh signalling activity was examined in *dly* embryos during mesoderm development. Hh and Wg signalling have distinct roles in patterning embryonic mesoderm. Hh signalling activates the expression of a mesodermal specific gene *bagpipe* (*bap*) in the anterior region of each parasegment, whereas Wg signalling inhibits *bap* expression in the posterior region. *bap* expression is diminished in the *hh* mutant, but is expanded to the posterior parasegment in the *wg* mutant. Consistent with a role of Dly in Hh signalling, it was found that *bap* expression was strikingly reduced in *dly* embryos. Together with the segment polarity phenotype, these results strongly argue that Dly is required for Hh signalling during embryogenesis (Han, 2004a).The role of Dly in Hh signalling was further examined during wing development in which Hh and Wg signalling function independently of eachother. In the wing disc, Hh signalling induces the expression of its target genes in a narrow stripe of tissue in the A compartment abutting the AP boundary. Hh signalling patterns the central domain of wing blade and controls the positioning of longitudinal veins L3 and L4. The roles of Dly in Hh signalling were examined by analyzing adult wing defects using 'directed mosaic' technique. Surprisingly, no detectable phenotypes were observed in adult wings bearing *dly* mutant clones. It was reasoned that Hh signalling may be mediated by other HSPGs in the wing. One candidate is the glypican *dally* that has been shown to be involved in Wg and Dpp signalling. Because available *dally* alleles used previously were hypomorphic, several *dally* null alleles were generated by P-element mediated mutagenesis. *dally80* is a null alleleand was used for analysis. However, similar to other *dally* alleles, homozygous *dally80*animals are viable. The wing bearing *dally80* clones exhibits a partial loss of the L5 vein with a high penetrance, but no detectable defects in the central domain of wingblade. To determine whether *dally* and *dly* have overlapping roles in Hhsignalling in wing development, clones mutant for both*dally80* and *dlyA187* (referred as *dally-dly* hereafter) were generated. Interestingly, the adult wings bearing clonesmutant for *dally-dly* show L3-L4 fusion. This phenotype istypical of loss of Hh function, suggesting that Dally and Dly play redundantroles in Hh signalling in wing development (Han, 2004a).This study demonstrates that Dly is the main HSPG involved in Hh signalling during embryogenesis, at least in epidermis and mesoderm, the twotissues that were carefully examined. Three l